update: add information about isSorted APIs to ordering page (#5530)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/collection-ordering.md

```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

## Check sorted order

You can use the following extension functions to check whether elements already follow a specified order:

* `.isSorted()`
* `.isSortedDescending()`
* `.isSortedWith(comparator)`
* `.isSortedBy(selector)`
* `.isSortedByDescending(selector)`

These extension functions return `true` if the elements are in the specified order or if there are fewer than two elements.
They return `false` and stop checking as soon as they find an out-of-order pair.

> For collections without a guaranteed iteration order, such as `HashSet`, and sequences that don't produce elements in a consistent order, the result may vary across calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For collections and sequences that don't have a guaranteed order, such as `HashSet`, results may vary across calls.
```
This is a little complicated. Can you shorten it to something like this?

Author: Hmm 🤔 , that’s a tough one. 

My concern with the simpler version is that it muddies the distinction a little: HashSet is an example of a collection without a guaranteed iteration order, not an example of a sequence. (which feels unclear to me in the second one) For sequences, the issue is whether they produce elements in a consistent order, which isn’t quite the same as a collection having a guaranteed iteration order.

Maybe we can keep the more precise structure, but make it a bit more parallel to make it parse a bit easier (although it makes the sentence even longer 😞 ):

For collections without a guaranteed iteration order, such as HashSet, and for sequences that don't produce elements in a consistent order, the result may vary across calls.

Reviewer: I really struggle to parse something that long 😞 Maybe we could swap it around?

> Use these functions when the order stays consistent across calls. For example, with ordered collections like lists. 
> `HashSet` collections and sequences in general don't guarantee iteration order.

WDYT?

Author: As discussed on Slack let's go with: 

> For collections without a guaranteed iteration order, such as `HashSet`, the result may vary across calls.
The same applies to sequences that don't produce elements in a consistent order.
To get the same result across calls, use these functions only on collections with a guaranteed iteration order, such as `List`.

> For ordered collections, such as `List`, repeated calls on the same elements return the same result.

Reviewer: Can you adjust this paragraph to make it more advisory? That these functions should only be called on collections/sequences that have a guaranteed order?

Author: good idea 👍 

To get the same result across calls, use these functions only on collections with a guaranteed iteration order, such as `List`.

When checking `Double` and `Float` values, these functions treat `NaN` as greater than any other value and `-0.0` as less than `0.0`.
Additionally, the `.isSortedBy()` and `.isSortedByDescending()` functions treat `null` selector results as less than any non-null value.

> When you call these functions on a `Sequence`, the operation is terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you call these functions on a sequence, the operation is terminal.
```

> It consumes the sequence to produce a `Boolean` instead of returning another sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It consumes the sequence to produce a `Boolean` value instead of returning another sequence.
```

```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

## Check sorted order

You can use the following extension functions to check whether elements already follow a specified order:

* `.isSorted()`
* `.isSortedDescending()`
* `.isSortedWith(comparator)`
* `.isSortedBy(selector)`

> * `.isSortedByDescending(selector)`

Reviewer 2: Two style notes to match the rest of the page:

1. **Leading dots.** Other inline function references on this page use `sorted()`, `sortedDescending()`, `sortedWith()`, etc., without a leading dot. Suggest dropping the `.` here and in the prose mentions below.

2. **API reference links.** Every function name elsewhere on the page is wrapped in a markdown link to its API page (e.g. [`sorted()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.collections/sorted.html)). Worth adding the same for `isSorted`, `isSortedDescending`, `isSortedWith`, `isSortedBy`, and `isSortedByDescending` once their 2.4 API ref pages are published (the stdlib 2.4 pages aren't live yet, so I won't guess at the exact URLs — you'll know the convention better than me when they go up).

Author: 1. Good point, the docs use leading dots for extension functions — the issue is that the original functions like `sortedBy()` didn't follow this convention, but it would be more correct to change those to have the leading dots instead. (`.sortedBy()`) I'll add all of these so it's aligned with the new ones which should be correct. 
I'll leave the compare functions because they are either top-level or member functions

2. you are right 👍 💯  — I'll add the links after the API reference is available.

These extension functions return `true` if the elements are in the specified order or if there are fewer than two elements.
They return `false` and stop checking as soon as they find an out-of-order pair.

> For collections and sequences, the result depends on the order in which elements are iterated.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit too broad. For `List` and most `Sequence` implementations the iteration order is deterministic, so this currently reads as a warning when nothing is actually wrong. The KDoc concern is specifically *unstable* iteration order — unordered collections like `HashSet`. Suggested rewording:

> For collections without a guaranteed iteration order (such as `HashSet`), the result may be inconsistent across calls. For ordered collections like `List`, the result is stable.

Author: thank you! 👍 very nice I slightly rephrased but your version is good: 

> For collections without a guaranteed iteration order, such as `HashSet`, and sequences that don't produce elements in a consistent order, the result may vary across calls. For ordered collections, such as `List`, repeated calls on the same elements return the same result.

When checking `Double` and `Float` values, these functions treat `NaN` as greater than any other value and `-0.0` as less than `0.0`.

> Additionally, the `.isSortedBy()` and `.isSortedByDescending()` functions treat `null` selector results as less than any non-null value.

Reviewer 2: Two additions worth considering near these notes:

1. **`Sequence` is terminal.** The `Sequence<T>` overloads carry an explicit "The operation is _terminal_." note in their KDoc — worth surfacing, since terminal vs intermediate is something `Sequence` users actively pay attention to.

2. **Arrays are supported too.** The section is currently scoped to "collections and sequences", but the same family ships on `Array<T>`, all primitive arrays (`IntArray`, `FloatArray`, …), and unsigned array types (`UIntArray`, etc., behind `@ExperimentalUnsignedTypes`). Even if the Ordering page is collection-focused, a one-line aside ("These functions are also available on arrays and primitive arrays.") would head off the question.

Author: both are good points thank you! 

I'm thinking of adding the first as an extra paragraph, and second as a note since it's a bit of an extra information: 

When you call these functions on a `Sequence`, the operation is terminal.
It consumes the sequence to produce a `Boolean` instead of returning another sequence.

> These sorted-order functions are also available for arrays, primitive arrays, and unsigned arrays.
> Unsigned arrays and operations on them are [Experimental](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained) and require opt-in with the `@ExperimentalUnsignedTypes` annotation.
> 
{style="note"}

Here's an example of checking sorted order with the `.isSorted()` and `.isSortedBy()` functions:

```kotlin
data class User(val name: String, val age: Int)

> fun main() {

Reviewer 2: Missing `//sampleStart` / `//sampleEnd` markers — every other runnable example on this page uses them to highlight the relevant region. As written, the `data class User` declaration is shown as part of the focus area.

Author: I don't think it's needed, but it doesn't hurt either, and you are right it's better for consistency — I added it. 👍

    val numbers = listOf(1, 2, 3, 4)
    println(numbers.isSorted())
    // true

    val users = listOf(
        User("Alice", 24),
        User("Bob", 31),
        User("Charlie", 29),
    )
    println(users.isSortedBy(User::age))

>     // false

Reviewer 2: The example exercises 2 of the 5 functions, and only the `false` outcome for `isSortedBy`. If you wanted to round it out without bloating the snippet, one extra line showing `isSortedWith(comparator)` (ties back to the "Custom orders" section directly above) or `isSortedDescending()` (to complement the ascending case) would help. Something like:

```kotlin
val descending = listOf(4, 3, 2, 1)
println(descending.isSortedDescending())
// true
```

Author: really nice addition — I added it 👍
